How do many people react when they see corruption and injustice?
They become insensed, and they want to fix the problem.
How do they try to fix the problem?
By becoming involved in political efforts or social movements that claimed a fight, corruption
and injustice.
In contrast, why did Jehovah's Witnesses not get involved in political efforts or social
movements?
The simple answer, because they've learned from God's word that the problems of this
world cannot be corrected.
Ecclesiastes 115 says, What is crooked cannot be made straight.
Sayings world around us is like the truck of a tree that has grown so crooked, twisted,
norlled it cannot be made straight.
Jehovah's Witnesses have learned, it would be futile to spend our time and energy, trying
to correct what Jehovah tells us cannot be corrected.
Additionally, Jehovah's Witnesses have learned how and where real peace can be found even
now.
In this regard, let's consider two modern-day examples of ones who came to acquire Jehovah's
thinking on this matter.
Let's talk about As Hideo Nahokbria and Fratha Brun, now first As Hideo.
Born in a remote part of East Timor, he experienced horrible guerrilla warfare during his childhood.
Many of his neighbors disappeared or were killed, and he feared he would be next.
But some years later he moved to the capital city and entered a university where he met
many other use with background-similared yes.
He became part of a student group that was trying to achieve social change through political
action.
Many political demonstrations were organized, but most ended up in riots with many of his
friends injured.
Some were even killed.
But then through a relative who was studying with Jehovah's Witnesses as Hideo started
to study.
Now, here's what he said as he started to study.
As I studied the Bible, I began to feel that I had never really known love.
Despite my rough appearance and disposition, the Witnesses treated me with fellow feeling
and brotherly affection.
Well, soon he was baptized, became a regular pioneer, and he was so happy because now
he knew he was truly helping people.
He ended his life story with these words.
In the past I felt angry, unloved, and unlovable.
But thanks to Jehovah at last I have found true love and peace.
But now let's talk about Fratha.
From an early age he was very upset by all the hatred, bloodshed, and war he saw around
him, but especially he was disturbed by religion's role in all of this.
He observed that much of this hatred, bloodshed, and war was encouraged, supported, or at
least condoned by religion.
But in 1955 he attended a convention of Jehovah's Witnesses, and after the convention he accepted
a Bible study.
Now during his studies he learned many wonderful things, but something he learned really motivated
him.
He learned the identity of the great prostitute, Bab and the Great, mentioned in Revelation
chapter 17 and 18.
He learned that this prostitute is the world-empower-a-false religion.
Then he was really amazed when he was shown Revelation 1824, which says in her the prostitute
was found the blood of all those who have been slaughtered on the earth.
So he learned that the world's religions could never be a force for international peace,
because they take sides, they're divided, and they go to war.
In contrast he saw that Jehovah's Witnesses are an international brotherhood that truly
practices what Jesus taught.
Both of those progress was very fast.
He got baptized, started pioneering, he attended the 50th class of Gilead, and has served many
years in Guatemala helping people as he was helped to find the true source of peace.
But now we ask, what are lessons we can learn from his Hideo and Freytha, who are many,
but here are three big ones.
Number one, we can never correct the corruption and injustice of this world by means of political
efforts or social movements.
That reminds me of the illustration of other years about trying to get rid of a problem
with spider webs, but being unable to get rid of the spider.
You're not the webs down.
Spider builds them right back, knock them down, builds them back.
You never get rid of the problem.
Well, in this illustration, Satan is the spider, and since he's the source of corruption
and injustice, as long as he exists, the problem will exist.
And little puny humans can't get rid of Satan.
He's superhuman.
So the solution must also be superhuman, and that's where God's kingdom comes in.
It's kingdom can and will not only get rid of the webs, but the old spider Satan himself
too.
Now here's our second lesson.
We must remember that political activism often leads to violence, which is the opposite
of peace.
We pursue peace, don't we?
Not conduct that often leads to violence.
Our third lesson, unlike the religions of this world, we must promote peace with all
people, which definitely means we refuse to get involved in any way in the wars of Satan's
world.
That reminds me of an experience a young brother had in the ministry.
A very emotional woman said to him, My son died.
For you to have the freedom you have, why won't you fight for your country?
Well, very calmly, the young brother said, I'm very sorry about the loss of your dear son.
But one thing I can guarantee you is that it was not one of Jehovah's Witnesses who killed
your son.
Now, I don't know if you can make that guarantee about your religion, but I can make that guarantee.
Well as it turned out, she was Catholic, so she definitely was unable to make that guarantee.
So let's remember these three powerful lessons that we have discussed.
But now we'd like to say to you dear interested ones in attendance, if you're not yet one
of Jehovah's Witnesses, we warmly invite you to please study the Bible with us.
See for yourself how genuine love is the best way of life and is the best way to deal
with the problems that divide society today.
Jesus made it crystal clear that the identified mark of true Christians is love.
At John 1335 he said, By this all will know that you are My disciples if you have love
among yourselves.
So dear interested ones, see for yourself whether this genuine love exists among Jehovah's
Witnesses.
But now we say to those of you who are already Jehovah's Witnesses, please continue to cultivate
and show love for the whole association of brothers.
And doing so will require that you remain strictly neutral regarding the world's political
affairs and other controversies.
Just as our leader remained neutral, at John 1714, Jesus said of His disciples, They are
no part of the world, just as I am no part of the world.
So during discussions in the ministry or anywhere for that matter, remain strictly neutral
on political topics.
Make no position regarding what law should be enacted, repealed, or changed, and don't
pressure others to agree with your view.
But to succeed in this, we must be careful not to allow the media of this world to manipulate
our thinking.
News broadcasts are often presented in a biased, opinionated way.
So we've got to be careful not to adopt the bias of a commentator.
Only if we keep our thinking neutral, we'll be able to keep our speech and actions neutral
also.
And remember, your good example of showing love and Christian neutrality may attract
honest-hearted ones to the truth.
But now we ask, What have we learned from this symposium?
We'll let's highlight just one valuable takeaway lesson from each of our six parts.
The first part, Joseph and his brothers, our lesson, So Peace by Letting Go of Resentment.
The second part, The Gibbianites, humbly submit to Jehovah's will, even if it differs
from what you prefer.
The third part, Gideon, prevent conflicts from escalating by choosing words that calm,
reassure, and heal.
The fourth part, Abigail, do what you can to promote peace, and then leave matters with
Jehovah.
The fifth part, Mephiba Sheth, be willing to suffer loss rather than disturb the peace and
the congregation.
And just another thought on this, let's always remember that defending Jehovah's name and
reputation is far more important than trying to defend her own name and reputation.
Be willing to suffer loss rather than disturb the peace in the congregation.
The sixth part, this part, modern day examples, serve the God of peace with His people, and
you will have peace.
Yes, during this symposium, we've learned many valuable lessons as to how we can so
peace.
Let's all be determined to do so with all our heart.
And what will be the final result?
For the answer, let's watch the final dramatization of this symposium.
There's one more story to tell.
I didn't know it at the time, but seeds of truth were being planted in my heart.
You were also different.
I couldn't understand it.
You were prisoners, yes, but you felt free, truly free.
After you were released, it became clear to me that you have God's blessing, and I wanted
to know why.
Phil, help me find the answer.
And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
Phil encouraged me to make the truth my own.
I had real trouble at first.
With all the turmoil going on at the time, the idea of being peaceable and waiting on
God's kingdom, it was hard to grasp.
But with Jehovah's help and the patience of these good people, I was baptized before
the start of the Great Tribulation.
Joseph, during our time in prison, a story of your life, your time in prison, and how
Jehovah was always with you became a real source of strength for us.
I remember one day, Carl said, what did you say?
I said, one day, we'll have a meal with Joseph, and we'll say, thank you.
And here we are, really, it's I who should thank you.
Each and every one of your stories touches my heart.
You know a lot about my life, but would it be all right if I shared a few more stories?
Please, we have so many questions.
Can you tell us about Egypt?
What was Pharaoh really like?
Dreams.
We got to talk about those dreams.
You do have many questions, and I have many details to share.
And thanks to our God, Jehovah, we have all the time we need.
What a touching video.
If we hold heartedly so peace, we'll save ourselves and those who listen to us.
But what fundamental truth from our great God have we discussed during this symposium?
This expressed at Galatians 6, verse 7, for whatever a person is sewing, this he will
also reap.
If we sow tomato seed, we will always get tomato plants.
Well, this unfailing fundamental truth applies to peace.
If we sow peace, we will always reap peace.
Although in some cases it may take some time for the peace we sowed to bring good results.
But if we persevere in sewing peace, we will reap peace of mind, peace with others, and
most importantly peace with Jehovah, and we'll reap the reward of living forever in a world
where there will be an abundance of peace.
So let's be determined to sow peace now so we can reap peace forever, and if you think
about it, that's a pretty good investment of our time and effort, isn't it?
sow peace now, and reap peace forever.